Search engine optimization: 
Driving thousands and thousands of people to our websites.

People who can benefit from SEO:
1. Business owners who have been investing for paid search. By ranking for keywords organically they benefit from increased traffic FOR FREE.
This is a long term strategy. 

Organic search is a method for entering one or a plurality of search items in a single data string into a search engine. Organic search results are listings on search engine results pages that appear because of their relevance to the search terms, as opposed to their being advertisements. In contrast, non-organic search results may include pay per click advertising.
Organic listings in Google search for example is what Google finds more authorative and relevant for the users.

With Pay Per Click (PPC), people are literally paying for the ranking.For example when people search in Google, there are certain ads on the top or on the side because people have paid Google to be there. 

SEO is fantastic for business owners as they don't want to pay all the time to be listed on top. PPC is usually short-term.

SEO is measurable for how much we pay and how much we get back for our money.

Local SEO is very important to drive our website locally, like in my city where can I find a barber.

2. In blogging Content Is King. With SEO, we can grow our audience incredibly fast by ranking great content. Keyword search optimization will bring more traffic and may also help to moneytize our sites (if we display ads for example).

http://optinmonster.com/improving-your-seo-to-generate-more-leads/

Google gets 3 billion searches everyday. So not being visible on the web is a huge mistake.

We will see:
1. How serch engines crawl, index and rank content.
2. What our audience is searching for and create content for them.
3. Technical SEO, i.e build a clean site that's easy for Google to find and index.
4. On-page optimizaions (content creation)- Create relevant content that Google and our readers will love, i.e optimized headlines, images, content body.
5. Off-page optimization: Boost our link authority abd drive our rankings to the top. This is all about building authority, i.e social media interactions etc.
6. Measurement and conversion optimization: Measure the performance of our keywords so that we can do more of what works.
7. Paid search: PPC 

How search engines operate
---------------------------
We must give search engines what they want. The more we are relevant to what they want, the more will be well ranked.

There are 3 steps to how search engine work:
1. Crawling: How SE find content on the web, following links through their bots/spiders which visit web pages.

2. Indexing: Once content is found this is how SE store it in its index, which is a massive database containing all the information about webpages on the internet. The index contain only info about what our pages are all about. Indexing is a clean way to order web pages.

3. Ranking: Once content is stored in the index, they compare with other content and rank it accordingly using an algorithm: mathematical process to determine which web page is the most relevant to the text we were searching for.







